.\"@(#)rquotad.8"
.TH RQUOTAD 8 "8 Mar 2001"
.SH NAME
rquotad, rpc.rquotad \- remote quota server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/rpc.rquotad [-p " port "] "
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.IX  "rquotad daemon"  ""  "\fLrquotad\fP \(em remote quota server"
.IX  daemons  "rquotad daemon"  ""  "\fLrquotad\fP \(em remote quota server"
.IX  "user quotas"  "rquotad daemon"  ""  "\fLrquotad\fP \(em remote quota server"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "rquotad daemon"  ""  "\fLrquotad\fP \(em remote quota server"
.IX  "quotas"  "rquotad daemon"  ""  "\fLrquotad\fP \(em remote quota server"
.IX  "file system"  "rquotad daemon"  ""  "\fLrquotad\fP \(em remote quota server"
.IX  "remote procedure call services"  "rquotad"  ""  "\fLrquotad\fP \(em remote quota server"
.BR rquotad
is an
.BR rpc (3N)
server which returns quotas for a user of a local file system
which is mounted by a remote machine over the
.SM NFS\s0.
The results are used by
.BR quota (1)
to display user quotas for remote file systems.

The
.BR rquotad
daemon is normally started at boottime from the
.BR rc.net
script (on systems with BSD'ish scripts, e.g. Slackware), or from the
.BR nfs
script in
.BR /etc/rc.d/init.d/
or
.BR /etc/init.d/
(on systems with SysV'ish scripts, e.g. RedHat, SuSE, etc).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-p," "" " \-\-port " port
specify a port for 
.BR rpc.rquotad 
to listen on.  By default,
.BR rpc.rquotad
will ask
.BR portmap (8)
to assign it a port number.  As of this writing, there is not
a standard port number that 
.BR portmap
always or usually assigns.  Specifying
a port may be useful when implementing a firewall.

.SH TCP_WRAPPERS SUPPORT
This
.BR rpc.rquotad
version is protected by the
.BR tcp_wrapper
library. You have to give the clients access to
.BR rpc.rquotad
if they should be allowed to use it. To allow connects from clients of
the .bar.com domain you could use the following line in /etc/hosts.allow:

mountd: .bar.com

You have to use the daemon name 
.BR rquotad
for the daemon name (even if the binary has a different name).

For further information please have a look at the
.BR tcpd (8)
and
.BR hosts_access (5)
manual pages.

.SH FILES
.BR quota.user ,
.BR quota.group
-- quota files locate in the file system's root
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR quota (8),
.BR rpc (3N),
.BR nfs (5),
.BR services (5),
.BR portmap(8),
.BR inetd (8)
