.\"
.\" mountd(8)
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1999 Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
.TH rpc.mountd 8 "25 Aug 2000"
.SH NAME
rpc.mountd \- NFS mount daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "/usr/sbin/rpc.mountd [" options "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B rpc.mountd
program implements the NFS mount protocol. When receiving a MOUNT
request from an NFS client, it checks the request against the list of
currently exported file systems. If the client is permitted to mount
the file system,
.B rpc.mountd
obtains a file handle for requested directory and returns it to
the client.
.SS Exporting NFS File Systems
Making file systems available to NFS clients is called
.IR exporting .
.P
Usually, a file system and the hosts it should be made available to
are listed in the
.B /etc/exports
file, and invoking
.B exportfs -a
whenever the system is booted. The
.BR exportfs (8)
command makes export information available to both the kernel NFS
server module and the
.B rpc.mountd
daemon.
.P
Alternatively, you can export individual directories temporarily 
using
.BR exportfs 's
.IB host : /directory
syntax.
.SS The rmtab File
For every mount request received from an NFS client,
.B rpc.mountd
adds an entry to the
.B /var/state/nfs/rmtab
file. When receiving an unmount request, that entry is removed.
user level part of the NFS service.
.P
However, this file is mostly ornamental. One, the client can continue
to use the file handle even after calling
.B rpc.mountd 's
UMOUNT procedure. And two, if a client reboots without notifying
.B rpc.mountd ,
a stale entry will remain in
.BR rmtab .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d kind " or " \-\-debug kind
Turn on debugging for kind.
.TP
.B \-F " or " \-\-foreground
Run in foreground (do not daemonize)
.TP
.B \-f " or " \-\-exports-file
This option specifies the exports file, listing the clients that this
server is prepared to serve and parameters to apply to each
such mount (see
.BR exports (5)).
By default, export information is read from
.IR /etc/exports .
.TP
.B \-h " or " \-\-help
Display usage message.
.TP
.B \-o num " or " \-\-descriptors num
Set the limit of the number of open file descriptors to num. The
default is 256.
.TP
.B \-N " or " \-\-no-nfs-version
This option can be used to request that
.B rpc.mountd
do not offer certain versions of NFS. The current version of
.B rpc.mountd
can support both NFS version 2 and the newer version 3. If the
NFS kernel module was compiled without support for NFSv3,
.B rpc.mountd
must be invoked with the option
.B "\-\-no-nfs-version 3" .
.TP
.B \-n " or " \-\-no-tcp
Don't advertise TCP for mount.
.TP
.B \-P
Ignored (compatibility with unfsd??).
.TP
.B \-p " or " \-\-port
Force
.B rpc.mountd
to bind to the specified port, instead of using the random port
number assigned by the portmapper.
.TP
.B \-V " or " \-\-nfs-version
This option can be used to request that
.B rpc.mountd
offer certain versions of NFS. The current version of
.B rpc.mountd
can support both NFS version 2 and the newer version 3.
.TP
.B \-v " or " \-\-version
Print the version of
.B rpc.mountd
and exit.

.SH TCP_WRAPPERS SUPPORT
This
.B rpc.mountd
version is protected by the
.B tcp_wrapper
library. You have to give the clients access to
.B rpc.mountd
if they should be allowed to use it. To allow connects from clients of
the .bar.com domain you could use the following line in /etc/hosts.allow:

mountd: .bar.com

You have to use the daemon name 
.B mountd
for the daemon name (even if the binary has a different name). For the
client names you can only use the keyword ALL or IP addresses (NOT
host or domain names).

For further information please have a look at the
.BR tcpd (8),
.BR hosts_allow (5)
and
.BR hosts_access (5)
manual pages.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rpc.nfsd (8),
.BR exportfs (8),
.BR exports (5),
.BR rpc.rquotad (8).
.SH FILES
.BR /etc/exports ,
.BR /var/state/nfs/xtab .
.SH AUTHOR
Olaf Kirch, H. J. Lu, G. Allan Morris III, and a host of others.
